---
title: Overview
---

The proof aggregation engine is a way to define different aggregation context that could be sent to different chains. Moreover, this engine provides a way to make profitable generate these aggregations for the users that can contribute to the chain and achieve some profit from his job.

The base concept defined by engine is **`Domain`**. A **`Domain`** has it own identify number `id` and some properties like:

* **The aggregation size**: the maximum number of proofs that are contained in any aggregation generated by this domain. A smaller size means a lower price to verify the statement in the destination chain and, hopefully, a more frequent publication for the aggregations; on the other side a smaller size also means a higher bridge cost because will be amortized by less number of proofs in the same attestation.
* **Publish queue size**: how many aggregations can stay on hold till somebody will publish them; when the queue is complete nobody can publish on this queue till at least one aggregation is published. A higher value means that you are reducing the probabilities that your valid proof will be discarded by this domain, on the other side a higher value means that the domain owner should hold more money to take the domain live and cover the storage costs.

The other important concept in this engine is the **Permissionless publication**: everyone can publish the aggregations in any domain and the publisher will be remunerated by the accounts that add their proofs in the aggregation.

Finally, is important to know the **published aggregations have a limited lifetime**: a published aggregation remains in published state just for the block where it was published: who would compute the ownership proof needs to do it by indicating exactly the block where the [`NewAggregationReceipt`](../02-mainchain/05-mainchain_api.md#newaggregationreceipt) event was emitted.
